- [Instructor] Hi, and
welcome back to the programme.
In this video, we're continuing
with the previous code,
and we're looking at methods.
In the last video, we
saw the print method,
and we understood that print
was something that you can do.
So methods are always,
should always be actions.
In this case, the print
method just prints something
out to the console so
that the user can see it.
In addition, we can also, of course,
create our own methods.
If our programmes could
only use the print method,
that would be a pretty boring programme.
In Python as well, we can
always type the hash symbol,
and what that does is that
deactivates a certain line,
and that, in programming,
is called a comment.
So here, I'm just going to
separate two sections of code
by two hash symbols to make sure,
make it easy for us to understand
that this is a different sort of section.
When I share this file with you,
it'll also make it easier on you.
So we've got the print method,
and the print method
we saw accept a value.
In this case, we gave it a value of 56,
and here, we have it a value, hello.
However, we can also
create our own methods,
so let's do just that.
Let's create a method that replicates
what the print method does.
The first thing we have to do
is to tell Python we're going
to be defining a new method.
And we do that with a def keyword,
and notice how Atom already knows that def
is a Python keyword because
it puts it in purple.
After the def keyword, we use a space,
and then we type in our method name.
I'm going to call it my_print_method,
but you can call it whatever you want.
The same restrictions as with
variable names apply here.
So you can make it as long
or as short as you want,
but it cannot start with a number,
and it cannot contain
any special characters.
After my_print_method,
we must also include a pair of brackets,
and the brackets here are so
we can include parameters.
Let's talk about that in just a moment.
Then, we're gonna put a colon,
and then we're going to press Enter.
Notice how Atom already
starts the next line
slightly more spaced in.
This is called indentation,
and it's really important in Python.
Whenever you see a colon,
the next line must be indented.
And all the indented lines,
which we can have many,
will belong inside this method.
So, for example, my_print_method
may be something like
print("Hello"), and then
we can also print "World."
Notice how the two lines are indented.
Afterwards, we can keep
essentially the indented lines,
and all the lines will run
when we run the method,
or we can stop indenting
just by deleting that space
and any lines we write after this
will not belong inside the method.
This is gonna start making
sense as we look at Python more.
Okay, so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to comment
these out to disable them, essentially,
and then we're going to
go back to the terminal,
and we're going to run our file again.
So what do you think
is going to come out
when we run this file?
Hopefully you gave it some thought.
You can always pause the video if you need
to give it a bit more thought,
and that's really important
in this course, and I will
do this asking you questions
over and over, just to
make you think of it.
So, what's gonna happen
is absolutely nothing.
Nothing gets printed out.
So, why not?
We've clearly said print("Hello"),
and we've clearly said print("world"),
and yet nothing is coming out.
Well, here's why.
We've created a method that
prints hello and prints world,
but the act of creating the
method does not run the method.
So we also have to run the method after.
And we do that my doing my_print_method
and then open and close bracket.
The opening and closing bracket at the end
tells us that we are running the method.
So let's save this and run it again,
and now, I'm sure you expect
the right thing to come out,
and that is hello world.
So, what's the brackets for?
Why do we need them?
Well, the brackets are
there for a specific reason,
which is for parameters, to
give the method some values.
For example, we can call it my_parameter,
and then instead of printing hello world,
we're going to print my_parameter.
So, what do you think is going to happen
when we run this again?
Give it some thought,
and maybe even try it out
yourselves in your code editors,
because what will happen is
not nothing extraordinary,
but maybe something unexpected.
We get a lot more than we signed up for.
We've got a traceback,
and then we've got a TypeError.
The traceback in any programming language
is just a list of what went wrong, really,
and it tells you where things went wrong.
So here, it's telling us that in our file,
variables_methods.py, in line 17,
my_print_method went wrong,
and then it also tells
us the type of error;
in this case, that's a
TypeError, quite redundant,
and it says my_print_method
takes exactly one argument,
but zero were given.
Okay, so let's analyse
exactly what this means.
We can see that we ran my_print_method
in the same way that we ran
the print method earlier.
The print method here had
one argument, my_variable,
and my_print_method has zero arguments.
We've given it zero arguments.
Here is one of the arguments
which, for your convenience,
I will rename to my_argument.
That seems to make more sense.
Parameters and arguments
are the same thing,
and me coming from a Java background,
I tend to call them parameters,
but in Python, they're
usually called arguments.
My_argument is exactly one,
so we have one argument there.
We've given it zero.
Therefore, Python says, hey,
you've got a problem here.
My_print_method expects
you to give it one value,
and you have not given it any values,
so therefore, we break.
So let's give it a value.
For example, this string,
the string hello, world.
And as you can remember,
this hello world then
goes into my_argument,
so my_argument in this
line becomes hello world,
and then we're going to print that out.
So let's save the file and
go back and run it again,
and what do you think is
gonna be printed out now?
And as you may imagine, the
words hello world come out.
So all we've done here is we've
said, my_argument is gonna
equal hello world, and then
we're gonna print that out.
Let's have another example of a method.
For example, my_multiply_method,
and this methods is not going
to have one argument but two.
So number one, and number two,
and as you can see
here, multiple arguments
are separated by commas,
and that tells Python
these are two separate
arguments that we want.
What goes at the end of
any method definition?
You know it, it's the
colon, and afterwards,
every line has to be indented
further than the def.
So the def was at the very
beginning of the line.
The next line has to be indented further.
Normally, in Python, the
indentation is four spaces,
but it can be anything.
But it has to be at least one space.
So here, I've got four
spaces of indentation.
You can have fewer or more, if you prefer.
My_multiply_method is then
is going to do something
called returning a value.
So what we're gonna do
is we're going to return
number_one multiplied by number_two.
Once again, we can do result,
which is a new variable,
is my_multiply_method, five and three.
So what do you think is going
to happen in this instance?
What do you think will be the result?
This variable here,
what will be the value
that we store in it?
Give it a wild guess, but
I'm sure you expect 15
to be in this variable at the end.
So, first let's verify
that you are correct.
I'm going to print result,
and I'm going to comment
this out so it doesn't get printed out,
go back to the terminal, run this again,
and of course you were
correct, it got the 15 out.
So, here's what happened.
We created my_multiply_method,
which takes in two parameters,
one called number_one and
one called number_two,
and then the method itself
didn't print anything.
All it did was return a value.
So here's what happened, in order.
First, the five became number_one,
sorry, or number_one became five.
Number_two became three.
So these values went in that direction.
Number_one times number_two
got calculated and gave us 15,
and then when we return,
what happened was that this
entire thing became 15,
and then the 15 got assigned to result.
So that's what returning is.
It just essentially
replaces the method call
by the return value,
and then you can do things with it.
And in this case, what we did
was put it inside the result variable.
Of course, if we comment the print out,
and we run the programme,
we can surely expect
something or maybe nothing will happen.
And you've probably got it right.
Nothing happens, because once again,
we've not printed anything out.
All we've done is created a variable,
and creating a variable
does not print things out.
We can also take it that step further
and use my_print_method
to print the result.
Now, here's what's gonna happen.
First, we're going to calculate
the 15 and put it inside
result, and then result is
going to go into my_argument,
and that's gonna get printed out.
Let's save the file and run this again.
And the 15 comes out.
Something to notice here
is that we've got the my_multiply_method,
and we're putting the
value into a variable.
But we don't have to do that.
We can do my_print_method,
my_multiply_method,
five and three,
and I'm going to comment this out,
and the same thing will happen,
the same order.
First, the five will go into number_one
and the three will go into number_two.
We will calculate the result
of my_multiply_method,
which is 15, and then
we're gonna use that result
as my argument, and then
we're gonna print that out.
So, exactly the same thing
here is going to happen,
and we can nest these methods,
put them inside one another,
as much as we'd like,
and naturally, if we do that many times,
the code becomes really
long and complicated
and difficult to read,
so I would not suggest you do that.
This pattern here, putting
things in variables
and then using those
variables, is more readable,
and therefore it's usually
easier to understand.
So really, that's
everything for this video.
So I hope you learned something,
and let's quickly move onto the next one.
We're going to be looking
at some more types of data
that we can use in Python,
other than numbers and strings.
I'll see you in the next video.